4/18/23, 9:15 AM Albert Einstein - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Albert_Einstein 26/54
The 1927 Solvay Conference in
Brussels, a gathering of the world's
top physicists. Einstein is in the
center.
delineated in 1964. The results of these and subsequent experiments demonstrate that quantum
physics cannot be represented by any version of the picture of physics in which "particles are regarded
as unconnected independent classical-like entities, each one being unable to communicate with the
other after they have separated."[270]
Although Einstein was wrong about local realism, his clear prediction of the unusual properties of its
opposite, entangled quantum states, has resulted in the EPR paper becoming among the most
influential papers published in Physical Review. It is considered a centerpiece of the development of
quantum information theory.[271]
Following his research on general relativity, Einstein attempted to generalize his theory of gravitation
to include electromagnetism as aspects of a single entity. In 1950, he described his "unified field
theory" in a Scientific American article titled "On the Generalized Theory of Gravitation".[272]
Although he was lauded for this work, his efforts were ultimately unsuccessful. Notably, Einstein's
unification project did not accommodate the strong and weak nuclear forces, neither of which was
well understood until many years after his death. Although mainstream physics long ignored
Einstein's approaches to unification, Einstein's work has motivated modern quests for a theory of
everything, in particular string theory, where geometrical fields emerge in a unified quantum-
mechanical setting.
Einstein conducted other investigations that were unsuccessful and abandoned. These pertain to
force, superconductivity, and other research.
In addition to longtime collaborators Leopold Infeld, Nathan
Rosen, Peter Bergmann and others, Einstein also had some one-
shot collaborations with various scientists.
Einstein and De Haas demonstrated that magnetization is due to
the motion of electrons, nowadays known to be the spin. In order
to show this, they reversed the magnetization in an iron bar
suspended on a torsion pendulum. They confirmed that this leads
the bar to rotate, because the electron's angular momentum
changes as the magnetization changes. This experiment needed to
be sensitive because the angular momentum associated with
electrons is small, but it definitively established that electron motion of some kind is responsible for
magnetization.
Unified field theory
Other investigations
Collaboration with other scientists
Einstein–de Haas experiment
Schrödinger gas model
