4/18/23, 9:15 AM Albert Einstein - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Albert_Einstein 16/54
Einstein had been sympathetic toward vegetarianism for a long time. In a letter in 1930 to Hermann
Huth, vice-president of the German Vegetarian Federation (Deutsche Vegetarier-Bund), he wrote:
Although I have been prevented by outward circumstances from observing a strictly
vegetarian diet, I have long been an adherent to the cause in principle. Besides agreeing
with the aims of vegetarianism for aesthetic and moral reasons, it is my view that a
vegetarian manner of living by its purely physical effect on the human temperament would
most beneficially influence the lot of mankind.[187]
He became a vegetarian himself only during the last part of his life. In March 1954 he wrote in a letter:
"So I am living without fats, without meat, without fish, but am feeling quite well this way. It almost
seems to me that man was not born to be a carnivore."[188]
Einstein developed an appreciation for music at an early age. In his late journals he wrote:
"If I were not a physicist, I would probably be a musician. I often think in music. I live my
daydreams in music. I see my life in terms of music  ... I get most joy in life out of
music."[189][190]
His mother played the piano reasonably well and wanted her son to learn the violin, not only to instill
in him a love of music but also to help him assimilate into German culture. According to conductor
Leon Botstein, Einstein began playing when he was 5. However, he did not enjoy it at that age.[191]
When he turned 13, he discovered the violin sonatas of Mozart, whereupon he became enamored of
Mozart's compositions and studied music more willingly. Einstein taught himself to play without "ever
practicing systematically". He said that "love is a better teacher than a sense of duty".[191] At the age of
17, he was heard by a school examiner in Aarau while playing Beethoven's violin sonatas. The
examiner stated afterward that his playing was "remarkable and revealing of 'great insight' ". What
struck the examiner, writes Botstein, was that Einstein "displayed a deep love of the music, a quality
that was and remains in short supply. Music possessed an unusual meaning for this student."[191]
Music took on a pivotal and permanent role in Einstein's life from that period on. Although the idea of
becoming a professional musician himself was not on his mind at any time, among those with whom
Einstein played chamber music were a few professionals, including Kurt Appelbaum, and he
performed for private audiences and friends. Chamber music had also become a regular part of his
social life while living in Bern, Zürich, and Berlin, where he played with Max Planck and his son,
among others. He is sometimes erroneously credited as the editor of the 1937 edition of the Köchel
catalog of Mozart's work; that edition was prepared by Alfred Einstein, who may have been a distant
relation.[192][193]
Love of music
