4/18/23, 9:15 AM Albert Einstein - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Albert_Einstein 22/54
Einstein at his office,
University of Berlin, 1920
In 1935, Einstein collaborated with Nathan Rosen to produce a model of a wormhole, often called
Einstein–Rosen bridges.[255][256] His motivation was to model elementary particles with charge as a
solution of gravitational field equations, in line with the program outlined in the paper "Do
Gravitational Fields play an Important Role in the Constitution of the Elementary Particles?". These
solutions cut and pasted Schwarzschild black holes to make a bridge between two patches.[257]
If one end of a wormhole was positively charged, the other end would be negatively charged. These
properties led Einstein to believe that pairs of particles and antiparticles could be described in this
way.
In order to incorporate spinning point particles into general relativity, the
affine connection needed to be generalized to include an antisymmetric
part, called the torsion. This modification was made by Einstein and
Cartan in the 1920s.
The theory of general relativity has a fundamental law—the Einstein field
equations, which describe how space curves. The geodesic equation,
which describes how particles move, may be derived from the Einstein
field equations.
Since the equations of general relativity are non-linear, a lump of energy
made out of pure gravitational fields, like a black hole, would move on a
trajectory which is determined by the Einstein field equations themselves,
not by a new law. So Einstein proposed that the path of a singular solution, like a black hole, would be
determined to be a geodesic from general relativity itself.
This was established by Einstein, Infeld, and Hoffmann for pointlike objects without angular
momentum, and by Roy Kerr for spinning objects.
In a 1905 paper,[211] Einstein postulated that light itself consists of localized particles (quanta).
Einstein's light quanta were nearly universally rejected by all physicists, including Max Planck and
Niels Bohr. This idea only became universally accepted in 1919, with Robert Millikan's detailed
experiments on the photoelectric effect, and with the measurement of Compton scattering.
Einstein–Cartan theory
Equations of motion
Old quantum theory
Photons and energy quanta
