4/18/23, 9:15 AM Albert Einstein - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Albert_Einstein 19/54
Eddington's photograph of
a solar eclipse.
zero, leading to large fluctuations. The effect of density fluctuations is that light of all wavelengths is
scattered, making the fluid look milky white. Einstein relates this to Rayleigh scattering, which is what
happens when the fluctuation size is much smaller than the wavelength, and which explains why the
sky is blue.[220] Einstein quantitatively derived critical opalescence from a treatment of density
fluctuations, and demonstrated how both the effect and Rayleigh scattering originate from the
atomistic constitution of matter.
Einstein's "Zur Elektrodynamik bewegter Körper"[215] ("On the Electrodynamics of Moving Bodies")
was received on 30 June 1905 and published 26 September of that same year. It reconciled conflicts
between Maxwell's equations (the laws of electricity and magnetism) and the laws of Newtonian
mechanics by introducing changes to the laws of mechanics.[221] Observationally, the effects of these
changes are most apparent at high speeds (where objects are moving at speeds close to the speed of
light). The theory developed in this paper later became known as Einstein's special theory of relativity.
This paper predicted that, when measured in the frame of a relatively moving observer, a clock carried
by a moving body would appear to slow down, and the body itself would contract in its direction of
motion. This paper also argued that the idea of a luminiferous aether—one of the leading theoretical
entities in physics at the time—was superfluous.[note 4]
In his paper on mass–energy equivalence, Einstein produced E = mc2 as a consequence of his special
relativity equations.[222] Einstein's 1905 work on relativity remained controversial for many years, but
was accepted by leading physicists, starting with Max Planck.[note 5][223]
Einstein originally framed special relativity in terms of kinematics (the study of moving bodies). In
1908, Hermann Minkowski reinterpreted special relativity in geometric terms as a theory of
spacetime. Einstein adopted Minkowski's formalism in his 1915 general theory of relativity.[224]
General relativity (GR) is a theory of gravitation that was developed by
Einstein between 1907 and 1915. According to it, the observed
gravitational attraction between masses results from the warping of
spacetime by those masses. General relativity has developed into an
essential tool in modern astrophysics, it provides the foundation for the
current understanding of black holes, regions of space where gravitational
attraction is so strong that not even light can escape.
As Einstein later said, the reason for the development of general relativity
was that the preference of inertial motions within special relativity was
unsatisfactory, while a theory which from the outset prefers no state of
motion (even accelerated ones) should appear more satisfactory.[225]
Consequently, in 1907 he published an article on acceleration under
special relativity. In that article titled "On the Relativity Principle and the
Conclusions Drawn from It", he argued that free fall is really inertial
Special relativity
General relativity
General relativity and the equivalence principle
