4/18/23, 9:15 AM Albert Einstein - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Albert_Einstein 25/54
Newspaper headline on 4
May 1935
Einstein and Niels Bohr,
1925
Einstein discovered Louis de Broglie's work and supported his ideas, which were received skeptically
at first. In another major paper from this era, Einstein gave a wave equation for de Broglie waves,
which Einstein suggested was the Hamilton–Jacobi equation of mechanics. This paper would inspire
Schrödinger's work of 1926.
Einstein played a major role in developing quantum theory, beginning
with his 1905 paper on the photoelectric effect. However, he became
displeased with modern quantum mechanics as it had evolved after 1925,
despite its acceptance by other physicists. He was skeptical that the
randomness of quantum mechanics was fundamental rather than the
result of determinism, stating that God "is not playing at dice".[264] Until
the end of his life, he continued to maintain that quantum mechanics was
incomplete.[265]
The Bohr–Einstein debates were a series of public disputes about
quantum mechanics between Einstein and Niels Bohr, who were two of
its founders. Their debates are remembered because of their importance
to the philosophy of science.[266][267][268] Their debates would influence
later interpretations of quantum mechanics.
In 1935, Einstein returned to quantum mechanics, in particular to the
question of its completeness, in a collaboration with Boris Podolsky and
Nathan Rosen that laid out what would become known as the EPR
paradox.[268] In a thought experiment, they considered two particles,
which had interacted such that their properties were strongly correlated.
No matter how far the two particles were separated, a precise position
measurement on one particle would result in equally precise knowledge
of the position of the other particle; likewise, a precise momentum
measurement of one particle would result in equally precise knowledge of
the momentum of the other particle, without needing to disturb the other
particle in any way.[269]
Given Einstein's concept of local realism, there were two possibilities: (1) either the other particle had
these properties already determined, or (2) the process of measuring the first particle instantaneously
affected the reality of the position and momentum of the second particle. Einstein rejected this second
possibility (popularly called "spooky action at a distance").[269]
Einstein's belief in local realism led him to assert that, while the correctness of quantum mechanics
was not in question, it must be incomplete. But as a physical principle, local realism was shown to be
incorrect when the Aspect experiment of 1982 confirmed Bell's theorem, which J. S. Bell had
Quantum mechanics
Einstein's objections to quantum mechanics
Bohr versus Einstein
Einstein–Podolsky–Rosen paradox
